Now, I don't know about you, but when AI
first came onto the scene, I was
expecting it to basically take over all
of the boring tasks in my life. Uh
whether it was just ordering groceries,
managing my email, or preferably at
doing my laundry. Unfortunately, as
you're probably well aware, this
expectation hasn't really manifested,
and instead, it seems that all AI has
been good for is generating slop and
taking away my favorite activity ever.
Fortunately, for those of us who wanted
to see some real benefits come from AI,
things are starting to look up. And
we've now got something that I think
fulfills my original expectation of what
I wanted AI to do, which is basically
manage all of the boring tasks in my
digital life. These include things like
managing my emails, automatically
replying to business requests, updating
my accounting software, and even helping
me to save money by monitoring the
prices of flights, all whilst letting me
know when a good deal is available. Of
course, all of this has been promised
before. However, the difference this
time is that this is an open- source
piece of software running on my own
private server, which means it can do
some more interesting things like
building and publishing the Linux
version of my latest app whenever I ask
it to or turning my raw thoughts and
ideas into concrete linear tickets.
Perhaps my favorite use case, however,
is that it can manage the actual machine
it's running on. Whether it's installing
applications, improving my systems
security, or just increasing its own
capabilities. Yes, the AI future that I
was hoping for is finally here, and its
name is Claudebot.
This little guy is an open- source agent
that hooks into a configured LLM
provider, handling all of the tasks and
messages I send over to it using a
common messaging app such as Telegram,
Discord, Slack, or even WhatsApp. In
addition to helping me automate a number
of tedious tasks, it's also been
incredibly fun. And I'm certainly not
the only one who thinks so. as pretty
much everyone I've seen online who's
used it has given it huge praise and for
myself it's probably the most fun I've
had playing with servers since setting
up my home lab back in 2023.
There's only one real wrinkle, however,
in that it does take a little bit of
technical skill to get set up, although
far less than it did a few days ago
because the devs behind it are
absolutely shipping. Therefore, in this
video, I'm going to show you how to set
up your own Claudebot personal assistant
on your own personal server, as well as
showing some of the ways that I
personally like to configure mine.
Additionally, we'll also take a look at
the concept of skills and how you can
add them to your own Clawbot so that it
can achieve whatever you ask of it,
except of course perhaps doing your
laundry. In order to begin, we're first
going to need a place to install Clawbot
on. This can be any machine that you
want, such as an old laptop, a desktop
PC, or even a Mac Mini. All of these are
perfectly viable if you have a spare one
lying around. But for the best
experience, you're going to want to use
a machine that is always available
online. Whilst you can achieve this with
your home network, the easiest and most
affordable way, at least in my opinion,
is to make use of a VPS instance. So,
that's what I'm going to use to install
Claudebot on. Specifically, one provided
by the sponsor of today's video,
Hostinger. Hostinger specialize in
providing high resource, long-term VPS
instances at an incredibly affordable
price, which makes them perfect for this
use case. The instance size that I'm
going to be using in this video is the
KVM2, which comes with two vCPUs and 8
gigs of RAM, as well as 100 GB of SSD
storage.
>> [snorts]
>> This is more than most people probably
need for an AI assistant, but it gives
me a little bit of headroom when it
comes to building projects or even if I
want to run a simple web app. And
because it comes in at the low price of
only $6.99 a month, then it makes it a
very compelling option. Additionally,
[snorts] if you use my coupon code
dreams of code when checking out, you'll
also get an additional 10% off this
already low price. So to get your own
VPS instance to use with Claudebot, then
visit hostinger.com/dreams
a code and make sure to use my coupon
code dreams a code for that additional
10% off. A big thank you to Hostinger
for sponsoring this video. Okay, with
your VPS instance in hand, the next step
is to select the operating system that
you want to use. In this case, the
choice is ultimately up to you. Uh, but
if you want to have the least amount of
headaches and follow along with what I
do, then the latest YUbuntu LTS, which
at the time of recording is 2404, is
going to be the best choice. Once you
have your VPS instance size and
operating system chosen, the next thing
to do is to follow along with the rest
of the setup steps. First, setting a
root password to something ideally
secure and then adding in an SSH key, of
which there are instructions on how to
do this uh when it comes to using
Hostinger. Once you've completed both of
these, you can carry on with the rest of
the remaining steps, and you should then
land on a page where your machine is
being configured, uh, which will take
about a minute. Once that's complete,
you'll then be presented with the
following screen, which will display the
SSH command for you to access your new
machine. Go ahead and copy that and then
paste it into a new terminal window,
which will then bring you straight into
your new machine. Okay, now that we've
managed to set up our VPS and managed to
SSH in, the next thing we want to do is
a couple of good security practices when
it comes to using a VPS. Let's begin by
first creating a new user on the VPS
called claudebot using the following add
user command. This will prompt us for
the password, which we should absolutely
set, and some other information that we
can just skip. Next, it's time to set up
some SSH keys for our new user. To do
this, [snorts] I'm going to go ahead and
open up a new window and run the
following SSH copy ID command with the
username Claudebot in this case,
followed by the IP address of my VPS.
Make sure to replace this with the IP
address of your own VPS instance. This
will then prompt you for the password of
the user that you just created. Once
that's copied, we should then be able to
SSH into our new user without needing to
enter their password, which we can go
ahead and verify and see it's working
correctly. The last thing to do is to
then add this user to the pseudoiz group
so that it can perform elevated tasks.
But we're also going to allow the user
to do this without needing to provide a
password. Now, fair warning, this is
kind of reckless. So, I wouldn't
recommend setting this option if you're
planning on running Claudebot on a
machine that you care about. Uh, but for
a dedicated VPS instance, then it's not
the end of the world, and it's better
than sending a password over a messaging
app anytime Claudebot needs to elevate
its permissions. there is a better way
to communicate passwords with Claudebot
uh which I'll show later on. In any
case, with our changes now made, let's
go ahead and confirm that our user can
perform pseudo commands uh by sshing
back in and running the following pseudo
ls command, which if configured
correctly should work. Okay, with that,
we've managed to set up a new user and
do some light security practices when it
comes to our VPS. Now, there are a few
other practices that I've intentionally
left out as we're going to defer those
to Claudebot to handle. With that, we're
now ready to begin installing Claudebot
onto the system. Just a quick note from
the future, since recording this video,
Claudebot now has a single command you
can use to install both the dependencies
and Claudebot, simplifying the whole
process. However, I'm going to leave my
section in just because I haven't tested
this, so your mileage may vary. First
things first, we need to install the
node runtime at version 22 or higher. To
achieve this, there are a couple of
different approaches we can take.
However, the one that I went with was to
use MVM, which was easy enough to
achieve by just copying over the install
script from the NodeJS website and
pasting it in. Once it's installed, you
should then have both NodeJS and mpm
available with a similar version to what
I have on screen. [snorts] Now, it's
time to go ahead and install Claudebot.
to do. So, let's first head on over to
the Claudebot website, which provides us
a single line to install via mpm. If we
go ahead and run this, we can see that
Claudebot will be installed after a
minute or two, which means we're now
ready to set it up. Fortunately, setting
up Claudebot is somewhat simple thanks
to their interactive wizard, which is
accessed by running the following
Claudebot on board command inside of the
BPS, which will take us into the
onboarding TUI. The first choice we're
given is to choose the onboarding mode.
Either quick start or advanced. Uh for
this video, I'm going to go ahead and
choose the quick start commands, but if
you're a little bit more familiar with
setting up a VPS from scratch, uh then
feel free to use advanced. The next
choice we're given is to set up an LLM
provider. Claudebot supports a few
methods out of the box, including using
anthropic oorthth tokens, OpenAI codeex
or API key, Google Gemini, anti-gravity,
and a few others. Initially, when I
first started using Claudebot, I was
using my Claude Max subscription, but
they recently decided to block
thirdparty harnesses. Whilst this has
been fixed using Claudebot and you can
do so, it is against their terms of
service. So, I'm not going to go ahead
and show it in this video because I
don't want anyone to get banned.
Instead, I'm just going to go ahead and
use my chat GPT plus plan by selecting
OpenAI codeex. This will prompt me to
load a URL inside of my browser, which
will trigger the OOTH flow for me to
sign in. Once this completes, I'll end
up on the following page, which does
suggest that something's wrong, but it
is in fact correct. Here, we need to
copy the URL of this page and paste it
back into the TUI, which will allow
Claudebot to authenticate. This does
feel somewhat janky, and to be fair, it
definitely is, mainly because it's
hijacking the oorthth flow. Once that's
done, we're then presented with an
option to select a messaging provider,
which can be either Telegram, WhatsApp,
Discord, Slack, etc., etc. For the
moment, I'm going to go ahead and skip
this, but we will add this in later. The
next prompt we'll receive is whether or
not we want to configure some skills.
Now, we'll take a look at skills later
on. So, for the meantime, I'm going to
go ahead and set no. Okay, with that, we
completed the onboarding TUI. Now, we
should be able to communicate with our
new digital assistant in order to finish
up the rest of our setup. To do so,
let's go ahead and use the Clawbot Tui
command, which will open up a simple
chat box we can use to begin
communicating with our digital
assistant. Let's begin by saying hello,
which will cause our bot to respond with
the following message. This message asks
for some information from us in order to
customize and configure the bot to our
liking. For my own assistance, I'm going
to go ahead and call them Zenbot and
give them the creature of a Zen fox with
the fox emoji. Lastly, I then need to
provide my name as well as a nickname
for what it can call me. Afterwards, we
should receive a confirmation that the
assistant has removed its onboarding
step as well as adding in the
information that we've provided into its
own configuration. Very cool. You can
also see that it mentioned it was unable
to restart Claudebot uh due to restarts
being disabled inside of the
configuration. Here we have a couple of
options to resolve this. We can either
restart manually, enable restarts in the
config, or a third option, which is to
just ask our assistant to do it
themselves, which is what I'm going to
do in my case. By the way, this step can
be a bit hit or miss. Sometimes it works
perfectly. Other times, you may need to
SSH back into your VPS and give it a
kick start. In my case, it did work, but
I did need to refresh the TUI session.
Okay, with that, we have our bot
configured, and now we can start asking
it to do some things for us. Before we
do anything too critical, however, and
now's a good time to address some
security issues our VPS instance has,
uh, specifically related to SSH.
Currently, there's a few loose things
when it comes to our SSH configuration.
However, rather than figuring out what
these are and solving them by hand,
let's instead leave this as a new task
for our new assistant. To do so, let's
actually use the web UI rather than
doing this in the terminal just so I can
show how one might access this. By
default, this UI isn't available over
the internet as it's bound to local host
only. So, in order to access it, we're
going to need to set up an SSH tunnel in
a new terminal window uh by using the
following command. [snorts] In your
case, you'll want to replace this IP
with the one for your own VPS instance,
but the rest of the command should look
the same. With the tunnel up and
running, we can now access it through
the web UI using my web browser at
localhost 18789, which will bring us
into the Claude UI dashboard console.
Very cool. Here you can see this
dashboard provides us with the current
health of our bot as well as a few tabs
to manage configuration. For the moment,
we're just going to ignore all of that
and use the chat interface. Therefore,
let's go ahead and send a message to our
assistant to perform a review of the SSH
config suggesting any improvements. I'm
also going to make sure to specify that
it confirms with me before taking any
action. Okay, we've got a message back
with some proposed changes. Although
this is for the entire SSH
configuration, I probably should have
specified this just for SSH server. In
any case, the proposed changes look
pretty much in line with what I would
want to change myself, although it
doesn't realize that it has pseudo
permissions. So, I'm going to go ahead
and let it know, as well as confirming
the changes that I want it to make.
Okay, let's go ahead and send this and
hope for the best. Okay, it's been about
a minute and we've got back a
confirmation on everything that it's
changed, which does look like it's
actually done a good job. So, let's go
ahead and confirm these by heading on
over to a new terminal window and seeing
if everything is working as expected.
First, let's try and SSH in as the root
user, which we can see has been
disabled. Very cool. Next up, let's try
and SSH in using password
authentication, which again gets
rejected. So far, that's two for two.
Lastly, let's go ahead and make sure
that we can still SSH into our clawed
bot user using public key
authentication. Hey, [clears throat]
look at that. Everything's working as
expected. Our bot has managed to upgrade
the security of our machine that it's
running on. I don't know about you, but
I actually find that really cool.
Awesome. Okay, next up, let's go ahead
and add in the ability to message our
bot using a normal messaging app, of
which there are a few to choose from. By
far the easiest in both my opinion and
the opinion [clears throat] of the
developers is to use Telegram. So,
that's what we're going to do in this
video. To do so, you can absolutely ask
your assistant to help set this up. uh
but you will need to provide them with a
bot token securely which means not
sending it over the chat interface.
Therefore, for this video, I'm going to
go ahead and show how to set this up
using the Claudebot CLI. To set up
Telegram, we can call the Claudebot
provider ad command on our VPS instance,
which will then bring up a list of
providers. Uh let's go ahead and select
Telegram. Next, we then want to select
the default or primary account, and
we're then prompted for our bot token.
To obtain a bot token for Telegram is in
fact really simple. All you need to do
is head on over to the Telegram app and
message the bot father to create a new
bot. In this case, I'm just using the
UI, but you can also do this over the
chat interface. Once you've created your
bot, you can then copy your token and
paste it into the terminal UI, after
which you can then select the following
defaults. These basically mean that in
order to message your bot, you need to
explicitly allow a request or a pairing.
With Telegram set up, the next thing to
do is to authorize our personal account
to message our bot, which we can do by
initiating a chat. This will then send
us a message letting us know that we
need to run the following command, uh,
passing in our user ID in order for the
bot to accept the request. Therefore, I
need to head back into my VPS and paste
it in. With that, I should now be able
to message the bot over Telegram and
receive back a response, which, hey,
look at that. You can see it's now
working. With Telegram now set up, I can
pretty much message Claudebot from
anywhere I might be using my phone. Very
cool. Okay, now that we can access our
bot via a simple messaging interface,
it's time to start putting it to work.
Uh, but where to start? Well, a good
place to begin is by adding in some
skills. These are documents written in
Markdown that provide instructions to an
agent on how to use a specific tool or
perform a specific task. It's basically
a form of light documentation, but the
way that I like to consider it is rather
than providing a full recipe book,
you're instead giving a single recipe
card with the goal of narrowing down the
choices the LLM can potentially make. As
for where to find these skills, well,
Claudebot does provide some out of the
box. However, the best place to find
them is the official Claudebot skill
website, Claude Hub, which is where
you'll find skills created and uploaded
by community members. As for how to add
these skills, well, these are all stored
within Claudebot's file system, of which
Claudebot can actually manage itself,
whether it's creating new skills or
downloading them from Claude Hub itself.
So, rather than adding this manually,
let's go ahead and add in our first
skill using Claudebot, which is going to
be the Claude Hub skill itself. This
will give our assistant the ability to
search for skills on Claude Hub and
download them onto its registry. In
order to bootstrap this, let's go ahead
and ask our bot to install this skill
itself by passing in the URL and
ensuring it sets up any required
dependencies. After a minute, the bot
has let me know that it's set everything
up. So, let's go ahead and confirm that
this is the case by heading on over to
the VPS instance and running the
Claudebot skills list command, which if
I scroll to the top, you can see
Claudebot is now available. Very cool.
With that, we can now begin adding in
skills from Claude Hub. Uh, by the way,
you don't have to use skills, but they
do make things a little bit easier. In
any case, let's go ahead and use this
new Claudebot skill to add in some more
assistant functionality to our bot. In
this case, I want the bot to be able to
summarize any new emails that come in on
my Gmail account. So to achieve this,
let's begin by first adding in a new
skill, which is going to be the GOG
skill, which provides instructions on
how to use the GOG CLI, which is used to
access Google services such as Gmail,
Google Calendar, etc. So, I'm going to
go ahead and ask Zenbot to search for
and install the GOG skill as well as any
dependencies. Uh, this time without
providing it a URL. In the response I
get back, we can see that the skill has
been added. uh but the actual GOG binary
has not due to homebrew not being
installed on the machine. This is one
caveat that I find when it comes to
skills on claudhub as they're usually
more optimized for Mac OS. In any case,
this isn't too much of an issue as the
bot has recommended to try and install
it using Go. So, let's go ahead and do
just that. Okay, so it wasn't able to
install using the Go install command due
to having an older version of the
language. So instead, it just went and
downloaded the binary direct from
GitHub, which is pretty cool. Next, we
need to then authenticate with Google,
which is achieved by setting up an OOTH
client in the Google developer
dashboard. I've done this step already
off camera, so I'm just going to go
ahead and copy over the client details
via SCP and ask it to authenticate with
it. Next up, I now need to provide it my
email address of which it will go and
create an oorthth URL for me to use.
Okay, so it's managed to do so and now I
just need to initiate my oorthth
authentication flow by clicking the URL
it's provided me and then logging in
followed by pasting back the local host
redirect we receive pretty much the
exact same process as it comes to
authenticating with open AI.
Unfortunately, it's failed. This is
because I haven't set up a key ring
password for it to store the OOTH token
in which is a good security measure. So
to resolve this, I'm going to go ahead
and copy over a password file using SCP
and then try again. Okay, this time it
did work and Google is now
authenticated. As I mentioned, there is
a better way to pass secrets into your
assistant, which I'll talk about near
the end. But for the moment, let's go
ahead and test to see if everything is
working by asking the assistant to
summarize the last email I received. And
after about a minute or two, we get back
a message summarizing the last email
that I received on my inbox. uh which
yes was an email that I sent to myself
for testing. Okay, with that I now have
the ability to ask Claude to be able to
summarize any email that I receive in my
inbox. Uh which means I can start
setting it up to do some other things.
So I'm going to go ahead and ask it to
set up a repeating interval or a chron
task to check my email twice a day and
let me know if anything important comes
through. By the way, this brings up a
good point. Uh Clawbot can actually be
tasked to be triggered a few different
ways. One, of course, is to respond to a
message, and another is the ability to
set up a chron configuration, which is
what it uses by default for its
scheduling. This allows you to schedule
tasks that your agent should perform
periodically. For example, in my
production bot, I have a cron task set
up to periodically check for flight
prices uh using the Amodus API and let
me know when a good deal becomes
available. In addition to Chron, your
bot can also be configured to work with
web hooks in which you enable web hooks
using the configuration and it'll expose
a small HTTP web hook for external
triggers. This allows you to add even
more forms of automation. In my case, I
have a web hook set up with Polar so
that my bot lets me know whenever a
purchase is made. The other trigger
types that Claudebot has access to
include monitoring for orth changes
which is good for informing you if your
OR credentials expire and also Gmail
pops up which can be used to respond to
email events. There's also just good
old-fashioned polling when it will just
check a task periodically. All of these
triggers make Clawbot extremely
versatile and really the only limit in
what you can achieve is your imagination
and of course any
infrastructure/physical
world constraints. Now, that being said,
Claudebot is definitely not perfect, and
at times it feels like it's only really
being held together with duct tape and
popsicle sticks, but even then, it's
still really fun to use and adds a brand
new dimension to automation and
self-hosting. One that I'm finding to be
really fun. That being said, there are
some good tips I think worth sharing.
Number one, it is an LLM, so there is
times it's going to do the wrong thing.
So, I definitely recommend not running
this on production hardware and making
sure to run it on an instance that you
feel comfortable if it absolutely
breaks. Number two, make sure to use Git
and the GitHub skill to back up and
version control your bot configuration,
which is really nice if you want to make
sure you have a backup so that you can
move it onto a different machine or in
case you make a breaking change. Just
make sure to ask it not to commit any
secrets. And perhaps the most important
tip I can give is to make use of a
secrets manager in order to share
passwords with your new bot. In my case,
I've set up Doppler using a skill which
allows me to easily add secrets to my
bot remotely without me needing to store
them into a file or send them over
Telegram. I've done this by providing an
access token which limits it to a
specific project in my Doppler
configuration. By the way, if you're
interested in more in how Doppler works,
I've actually done a whole video you can
watch about it here. However, before you
go and do that, let me take a moment to
thank the sponsor of today's video,
Hostinger. If you're looking to get your
own VPS instance to host Clawbot on,
then Hostinger is a great and affordable
option and one that I've been using now
for just over a year. Not only are they
really reliable, but they're also
incredibly affordable and a great option
for running projects like these. So, if
you're interested, then make sure to
visit them at hostinger.com/dreamscode
and use my coupon code dreamscode to get
an additional 10% off. Otherwise, that's
all from me. I hope you enjoyed the
video and I'll see you on the next one.